## Implications of Model and Future Goals
### Use of the Model
As constructed, the model I was able to train and produce is able to intake satellite images and classify where buildings are in that image. This is a powerful tool on its own but opens up a lot of opportunities with different applications. First, it takes away the need for manually classifying where buildings are in an image. Using this automated model allows for that process to take much less time than normal. Even if the model is not perfect, it provides a general outline that a manual counter could further build on. Additionally, being able to identify buildings would allow for users to then count up the total amount of buildings in the area. On top of that, an algorithm could be developed in order to automate that counting process.  Like I did in this project, they could compare images from different time periods to see how building placements have changed in the area over time. This gives a more qualitative understanding of urban changes which can be useful in answering questions about population density and more. Overall, the applications of the model are widespread and beneficial.

### Future Goals with the Model
In the future, this model could be expanded to have more capabilities to increase effectiveness. The most interesting goal in my view is opening it up beyond just binary classification of building vs non-buildings. This would allow for a multi-class classification, identifying a building as a store, single home, townhouse, apartment, etc. These classifications could provide additional information about the surrounding areas and the makeup of the buildings comprising them. To perfect this model, different data sources would be imperative. They would have to have more in-depth labels than the datasets that I used for training because it is more than that binary task. With that in mind, the potential capabilities of understanding the types of buildings in an area through an automated process would warrant finding those datasets. An additional goal with this model would be to expand it to recognizing land use. This would then classify objects as road, water, greenery, etc. These classifications would continue to give a more in-depth view of what the area contains. Combining all of these classifications would give the best information on the area and provide the most potential in helping city planners and school board executives understand the shifting trends of the area. These additions to the model could provide an in-depth, up-to-date representation of the city.

### Potential Future Project
Beyond my current project, it would be interesting to revisit the question of population estimation from satellite imagery. Rather than just looking at the buildings, diving into actual population estimates for a given area would be a powerful tool. This would help with estimations of census data, provide information about the population in a given school district, and so much more. Though it was outside the scope of my project for this summer, it provides immense opportunity and is worth investigating more in a potential future project.

#### [Home Page](README.md)