## Dataset for Harrisonburg, VA
### The Dataset
The dataset that I came to use for Harrisonburg, VA comes from the [USGS Earth Explorer](https://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/). This website provides satellite images of varying types around the United States. The images that I selected to use for my project all come from the Harrisonburg Area and are .3 m resolution, same as the training dataset that I used. This means that each image segment is that same 5000 x 5000 pixels, keeping consistency between the training dataset and the images that I want to get actual results on. The website allows users to mark an area on the map using coordinates and then download any images that are in that areas. This allows for me to specifically pick the areas that I want to assess for this project, allowing much more freedom than I was initially expecting to have with a more traditional dataset. This flexibility and the format of the pictures makes it so that the USGS data is a great fit for my goals with the project.

### Limitations
The dataset is not perfect and has some limitations. The first limitation is that some images have higher levels of cloud coverage than others. This means that the object in the image may be covered up by clouds which can limit visibility. Luckily, the selecetion portal on the USGS website allows for the user to specify a level of cloud coverage that they want to see, ranging from 0% to 100%. This helps select images with less cloud coverage, but it is still possible that an image from a desired time period and area has too much cloud coverage. Additionally, the images from the dataset are older. The newest images in the Harrisonburg area is 2011 and the next year is 2007. This limitation is less impactful in my pursuit because I am trying to exhibit that the model can be used in this use case. Because of this limitation, I will be comparing images from 2007 to 2011 in order to see changes in housing structures rather than a newer time span. Once I am able to show the effectiveness of the model in this use case, I hope to one day find and potentially purchase newer images to have up-to-date understandings of urban changes and residential patterns. These two limitations do not stop the USGS dataset from being effective in my model and research, but rather refocuses my approach to exhibit the success of the model and potential application for future use cases. 

### My Implementation
For my research purposes, I downloaded images from the Harrisonburg area outlined below. I downloaded the images from 2007 and 2011, labeling them as such to keep track of the time period. Once I had them downloaded, I seperated the images into different folders. I applied the same preprocessing as I did on the training data, splitting the larger 5000 x 5000 images into 390 250 x 250 images. This makes the images easier to provide as input to the model and for the model to predict on. I did this for each larger 5000 x 5000 image and placed them into folders designating the time period and the location of each. This preprocessing made the images ready for the model to predict on and provide results

####[Information about the Model](model.md)