## Abstract
The main objective of my research project this summer is to identify buildings in Harrisonburg using satellite imagery. This information will allow counties in Harrisonburg to understand housing trends and the location of most residential areas. The proposed model will be able to take input satellite imagery to show maps of building segmentation. The idea of this project came from multiple changes in the Rockingham County school district boundaries as administrators tried to accommodate for changing population counts in each area. These changes were a result of largescale immigration, meaning the city had to create more residential areas in a short time space. This resulted in fluctuations in student body  for the school system, the creation of new schools, and the movement of students based on their place of residence. With this model, school districts will be able to have up to date estimates on where students and families are living live, being able to better predict changes in student location to anticipate potential changes in the student enrollment numbers. 

My first objective for this project is to undergo a thorough literature review of current techniques in population prediction using machine learning techniques. I will analyze various published papers on the topic from 2019 until now, taking note of the machine learning techniques, satellite imagery sources, and methods they use to meet their goal. With this information I will better understand the direction I should take in my own pursuit. I will try to look into the methods beyond what is presented in the papers, watching various instructive videos on machine learning architectures and methods. Additionally, I will examine the authors' GitHub accounts, looking for potential skeleton code to base my implementation around.

My second objective is to find the best sources of data that I need and to take steps to clean the data if necessary. I will mostly base this search for data sources off of the methods I read about in the literature review. I will analyze the different satellite imagery I find to see which best fits my objective. I will take suggestions based on the sources of data used by the authors of the papers I read. This includes possibly using the same data that they used for training the model, finding additional images to use for my Harrisonburg implementation. Spending time on finding the correct dataset will pay dividends later on as it will improve the results of the model and research project as a whole. 

For my third objective, I want to properly create, test, and assess the chosen CNN method to understand its effectiveness in building segmentation in Harrisonburg, VA.I will split the data that I retrieve in the previous step into training and testing data. By splitting the dataset into training and testing sets, I will ensure that the model does not become overfit on the training data. This will help predictions on future data be more accurate and helpful for the desired use. Together, this process creates an effective model for building segmentation in Harrisonburg, VA. 

With these steps I feel confident that I will be able to create a model capable of building segmetnation from satellite imagery which will aid Harrisonburg County as well as the schools in the surrounding areas. 

### Links to Further Files
[1. Proposed Calendar for Project Completion](calendar.md)

[2. Dataset used for training](dataset.md)

[3. Literature Review](litreview.md)